all right we're going to go back uh to
our coverage of Gaza now we're joined by
Dr Muhammad alad he's a plastic and
reconstructive surgeon and he's part of
the American medical team with rahma
Worldwide that's an independent
humanitarian organization he's joining
us from the European Hospital in Gaza
doctor thank you very much for your time
I understand that you've just recently
arrived as part of a team of American
doctors what is the situation in the
European hospital what do you find
uh thank you for having me on um the
team we have just a minor correction uh
we were're 19 surgeons from the United
States Jordan and France um the
situation here is undescribable to say
the least um when we came we arrived
Thursday night and um Friday morning
with everybody went to the o just to
start their cases um I can give you
innumerable stories about um that will
illustrate how the situation is best if
I say this morning I had to do surgery
without any gowns I had to do it with my
scrubs um I've seen patients with minor
burns that end up dying just because
there's no care um nothing can be uh
nothing's available actually to provide
them with care uh I had a sorry to
interrupt you Dr ala but when you say
that you know nothing is available can
you tell us what you mean
exactly sure so I'm talking in terms of
equipments I'm I'm talking in terms of
supplies I'm talking in terms of um
staff the Physicians and the uh and
nurses are completely exhausted when we
came on um we asked them to to kind of
let us give them a relief however they
still continue to work and uh they've
been working on sto for for about four
months now over four months and um you
walk into the war and we are
practicing an 18th century medicine here
okay because we don't have equipments we
don't device okay so that's what you
mean when you say that you don't have
anything what then does that mean for
the patients at the hospital the care
for them their
chances poor outcome and high mortality
um I'm telling you I had I've lost in
this week several patients for for very
simple reasons uh we don't have good
dressing uh gauze we don't have uh some
dressing supplies patient get septic
patient die because the ventilators are
um are not working well um we don't have
enough medications to treat patients
with so it's it's it's across the board
it sounds like an incredibly difficult
situation can you give us an idea of how
many patients the hospital is meant to
be servicing providing treatment for and
the kind of numbers and injuries that
you're
seeing so I I don't have exact numbers
however um my understanding from
discussion with the staff here European
hospital was not meant to be a trauma
hospital it was meant to be like a
medical facility to treat you know high
blood pressure uh diabetes that kind of
thing however uh due to the
circumstances we're in right now they
have to treat um
massive casualties and multiple
casualties uh uh in the ER uh last night
we heard ambulances coming I ran down
with a couple of my uh team members um
out of six people in three
died so mortality is really high we
don't have ultrasounds in the ER we
don't have centralized we don't have
medications we don't have anything toate
patients with so they just end up dying
that is just absolutely horrific what
you're
describing I believe that you also know
about the condition of our colleague is
abuan and and I just want to make sure
go
ahead yes please
continue and and I just want to make
sure that whoever listening to us
understand that this has nothing to do
with what is your political stand or
what's your ideological background or
what's your ethnic background this has
nothing to do with that this has to do
with a a group of people that have been
uh in in a crisis situation and no hands
been extended to them to give them some
support we're treating children we we're
treating women we're treating elderlies
and um mortality is really high across
the board and it's I can't believe that
21st century we allow this to happen and
you're treating people and you're
treating people who are supposed to be
protected under international law even
during times of War including
journalists I believe that you know
about the condition of our colleague
ismile Abu Omar who lost his leg in an
Israeli drone attack how's he
doing well at this point um he's still
critical I just spoke with uh your uh
one of your um um uh producers I believe
another he he needs to be without ASAP
because there's high risk of losing
another limp will be a bilateral EMP and
maybe losing part of his fingers and um
we don't have any um any equipments or
resources to treat him locally here he
needs he needs to be sent out Dr ala
thank you very much for joining us and
for really describing to us the
situation at the European hospital just
one of few that are functioning in Gaza
thank you for your
time thanks for having me on